name: Edmund John

title: Retired Partner
office: Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York, Cleveland

bio: Edmund John is a retired partner with the firm’s Maryland, Pennsylvania, New York, and Ohio offices. His work encompasses a diverse range of practice areas—from class action and construction defect to product liability and toxic torts. He enjoys the challenges presented by having a broad practice, and even after 50 years in the industry, remains committed to continually expanding his knowledge across all areas of the law.
For nearly two decades, Mr. John operated his own group at Swartz Campbell, defending clients in asbestos personal injury matters. Under his leadership, the team developed innovative ways to manage cases using novel techniques and the latest technology, delivering the highest quality representation in the most efficient, cost-effective manner. He was involved in all phases of litigation—including pleadings, discovery, motion practice, trials, and appeals—in both federal and state courts. Drawing on this broad experience, Mr. John helped develop court-approved procedures designed to streamline case management and control defense costs without compromising his clients’ substantive and procedural rights. He also played a key role in shaping the federal asbestos personal injury MDL, designed to promote consistent and efficient handling of numerous related cases.
Mr. John graduated cum laude from Villanova University in 1972 before joining the Navy JAG Corps and enrolling in Temple University Law School. After earning his J.D., he spent four years stationed at the Naval Legal Service Office in Philadelphia, where he gained criminal trial experience. At the same time, he took night classes at Temple to obtain a Master of Law in Taxation. After leaving the Navy, Mr. John worked at several firms representing companies and their insurers in asbestos matters. Later, he opened his own practice to be closer to his children as they grew up. During this time, he served as an arbitrator for three asbestos personal injury trusts and represented small businesses for matters including fraudulent transfer claims, zoning disputes, and attorney malpractice.

personal bio: Beyond his professional pursuits, Mr. John has long been active in his community. He was involved in Boy Scouts and youth sports while his children were growing up, volunteered for both the Democratic and Republican National Conventions, and is still a member of his high school’s Alumni Association. An avid and experienced traveler, he believes that experiencing other cultures fosters empathy, broadens perspectives, and encourages thoughtful engagement in society. This global outlook informs his professional approach by promoting a respect for diverse viewpoints and a deeper understanding of the clients he serves. Above all, Mr. John is devoted to his family. He takes great pride in seeing how his children have grown into compassionate, accomplished adults, and finds equal joy watching his grandchildren follow in their footsteps, developing into thoughtful, hardworking members of their communities.



practice areas: Appellate, Class Action, Contracts, Complex Civil Litigation, Construction Defect, Mass Tort Litigation, Product Liability, Personal Injury, Toxic and Environmental Torts

BAR ADMISSIONS
2016 Maryland
2010 Ohio
2008 New York
1975 Pennsylvania

COURT ADMISSIONS
U.S. Supreme Court
U.S. Court of Appeals, 3rd Circuit
U.S. Court of Military Appeals
U.S. Tax Court
U.S. District Court Eastern District of Pennsylvania
U.S. District Court of Maryland
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
All Pennsylvania, Maryland, New York and Ohio State Courts

EDUCATION
1978 Temple University School of Law Philadelphia, PA- LLM Taxation
1975 Temple University School of Law Philadelphia, PA- J.D.
1972 Villanova University Villanova, PA- B.A. Cum Laude in Political Science

CERTIFICATIONS
Villanova Interdisciplinary Immigration Studies Training for Advocates (VIISTA)

MILITARY
1972-1979 United States Navy JAGC, Lieutenant

